[Autogenerated] Okay, let's dive into a W s step functions now.
Step functions.
Allow us to build distributed apps and in doing it in step functions.
The service allows us to use a visual workflow.
Now step functions error used for executing steps in a particular order.
So if you have a specific flow and you want to trigger
events one after another or at the same time,
you can use step functions.
So let's go ahead.
I want to get started.
And I just want to show you this Hello world example.
I'm not going to create anything more than this.
I just want you to be familiar with what step
functions are and how they're used.
So what happens is you create a JSON formatted file and it
uses what's called Amazon States language.
So there's specific key value pairs you must pass in in
order to define your step function workflow.
And what's cool is over here on the right.
You see this graph?
This is the flow of all of this JSON.
On the left, we see our hello world example.
Step here on the right and where it matches up on the left and then
we can see all of the other steps that proceed afterwards.
Now it's important to know there are several different types of steps.
So there's choices.
There's passes, there's several, so it's important to know when to use which one.
So an example of a choice type is right here at the
beginning with our hello world example.
So at this step here online 10, you can see it's a choice type,
and we provide choices in a list format.
So we have a bullion that we're measuring.
And if this variable equals true, then it's gonna follow the yes step,
which is this here on the right.
But if it's falsy, it's gonna follow the no path and that leads to an end.
So how it works is we pass an input and I'll show you that Here,
coming up, we give our state machine and name so we'll do.
Hello, world.
Example.
We can.
Create a new role.
Choose an existing or enter error.
Olarn.
You can set up CloudWatch log so you can log any errors
that happen within your step functions, and then we can tag it.
So I'm gonna go and create my state machine here,
and then we pass in an execution.
So what this is is we specify an execution, IDE, which is optional.
And that's just a unique identify error to identify which step did what.
And then, you see, we pass in some input.
So this is our values in JSON format,
and you can see we're setting our is hello world example key,
which is one of the variables we measure to true.
So it should follow the yes path.
So if I click start execution, you can see it started.
So it hit.
Hello, World it past.
Yes, you can see succeeded it hit await state.
So this is waiting for three seconds and then it continues
on to these parallel processing states.
And then finally it enters our hello world final state and then it ends.
And what happens here is you can see we just parsed and
output that same value we passed in.
So it duplicated the list based on these parallel steps right here.
And you can see that there we input it one value and then we output it too.
So we split and then output both as a combined variable in JSON format.
So now if I go back, Let me go ahead and I want to start a new execution.
But this time let me set this to falsy.
I'll click on Start and then you can see.
Now our choice has been made.
It's not yes anymore.
It's skipped to know and it failed because we set that variable to falsy.
So now in the output we get nothing and we see a
exception that's defined within the code.
Not hello world.
So if I look at the code here and I scrolled down to
know right here in the middle, you can see the cause,
which is the exception that we're printing,
says not hello world.
So this is how you can transition between different states using an A.
W S hosted services.
This is a really cool tool, and it's extremely handy if you need a guarantee,
a certain order of processing for data in an application.
Now.
Another key factor with these state machines is that
you can require manual approval so, as common scenario that can get brought up,
is asking for guaranteeing a specific workflow order as well as
requiring approvals and in step functions.
You can do that so be sure to remember that and keep that in mind.
Now, before we wrap up,
let's just go over some common scenarios that step functions can be used.
For now,
the biggest thing that I've seen personally is they get used with batch jobs.
Now, step functions can work with many different services,
so you can see all of these tasks snippets that they provided.
And there's a ton you can see it integrates with a lot of these
APIs within a W s so we can invoke another workflow from our
workflow here we can invoca function we can send a message to sqs
and this will show you what that code should look like if it lives
within your step function.
So this is our state languages JSON formatted code that
we would put in our state machine.
So let me go and cancel this,
and the last thing I want to talk about is event driven.
Work flows from an express standpoint, So this is for high event workloads.
Now, most of the time standard is fine,
But if you have something that's streaming consistently
or maybe pushing in data like I o t, you might wanna look into using Express now.
You shouldn't be tested over this because it's a newer technology,
but it's important to remember that there is a
standard for longer duration jobs.
And then there's express for high event workloads.
So with that, we're gonna go ahead, will end here, and then we'll wrap up with a module review in the next clip.